Can you tell us
the details as you understand it,
inside the Israeli government
of this extended truce?
So I think we we
we have to say the following.
Before we talk about extending the deal,
we have to implement the current deal.
And we're waiting for the last batch
of hostages of women and children
who are supposed
to be released this evening.
And until they are safely on Israeli
soil,
we can say that the four day agreement
for the 50 hostages has been implemented.
Having said that,
my prime minister
spoke publicly last night and he was
His remarks were reported on CNN.
He said that we are open to the extension
of this humanitarian pause
and for as your reporter
said quite correctly,
for every ten hostages
released,
we are willing
to give an extension of another day.
And if Hamas will release
Israeli hostages as agreed,
we will extend.
That's that's the bottom line.
So that means if it's going
to be extended for two more days
and I understand
what you're saying
about what's going to happen today,
and I'll get to that in a minute.
But just staying on this deal
that was just announced inside
Qatar in the White
House, is also confirming
if it is
one day, one more day of a truce
for every ten hostages, if it's two days.
Presumably that means Hamas has agreed
to 20 additional hostages after today.
That's correct.
Once again, the parameters were set
and these were negotiated
with the help of President Biden.
And we thank him for being
putting his effort
and his office
behind behind these arrangements.
We wouldn't have
I don't think we would have
reached the deal without his input.
And yes, it was agreed.
Every extra day
we get ten hostages
and we will stand by that.
Were they so far?
They have only been women and children.
And that was the.
And those are
the parameters of this initial deal.
What about the extension?
Will men be included there?
My understanding is that there's still
enough women and children in Gaza held
by Hamas
that can fill that for the next 20 years.
Hamas is responsible
for all the hostages.
They are, unfortunately,
but they are the government
there in Gaza.
They control the situation on the ground.
The cessation of fighting
has given them the opportunity
to to get defined every last hostage.
And we're expecting tonight
to see the final group
of women and children.
And hopefully in the coming days,
we'll see more
Can you just expand on what you just said
and how you started
in this interview
talking about the current situation?
What is the holdup?
You said that there is a holdup.
What is the sticking point
when it comes to the group of women
and children expected to be
released today?
As you know, this is the fourth
and final
release
in the framework of the four days.
But as you know,
I think it was only last night
that they actually got out on time
on the first day
and the second day, there were delays,
there were last minute crises.
There were all sorts of problems.
And the truth is,
we have to remember
who we're dealing with.
We're dealing with a ruthless,
fanatical terrorist organization, Hamas.
And it's always like pulling teeth.
I mean, it's difficult It's never easy.
And that's why I urge let's
wait to see what happens tonight
that we see our people,
the released hostages
safely on Israeli soil.
I mean, last night
we had 13 Israeli
women and children released.
The youngest was that four year old
American Israeli Abigail Dunn.
Right.
She was kidnaped when she was three.
So you have to ask,
what sort of people kidnap 33 year olds?
Right.
And I think that tells you everything
you need to know about Hamas and explains
why it's so difficult.
These people are ruthless.
And if they think there's an advantage
in them
for for perpetuating
the suffering of these innocent civilians
and their families in Israel,
they will do
so if they think it's in their interest.
Well, she was three
and her parents were also according
to President Biden,
murdered brutally right in front of movie
on October 7th.
So I completely take your point.
Having said that, the
they are the organization
that you have to deal with
because they are the ones
who have these women and children.
So given that reality by that unfortunate
reality that you are dealing with,
what is the status as far as you know,
of those
who are supposed to come out today?
So, once again, we have received
some some good signals,
but until they are on Israeli soil,
it's not done
We can't celebrate.
And it's the same for the families
who've been waiting for these people
for over 50 days now.
And once again,
once they are on Israeli soil,
we can say it has been done.
But we're all
we've got to be cautious with Hamas.
You've got to be cautious.
You need
nerves of steel
when you're dealing
with these sort of people.
Marc,
I want to ask about
one of the sticking points
over the weekend, which was that
there was a child released without
her mother, the Rotem family,
HeLa was
released, and her mother was not Raya.
What is your understanding at this point
of why that is, particularly now,
since you have been able
to officials in your government
have been able to speak
with the daughter
about the last time she saw her mother?
Can you give any more information
about that?
I can only say the following, Donna.
And to release a young child
without a parent,
that is the most inhumane thing
to release a daughter
and for the mother to stay in captivity.
Once again,
that is a nother manifestation of what
we're dealing with,
that these people
are heartless, these people are depraved.
These people lack any sense
of common decency.
And that is our enemy.
And when the fight against
Hamas is resumed,
I want people to remember
that Israel is fighting a ruthless
and despicable terrorist organization.
And when we defeat them, as we will,
that won't just be good for Israel.
Our people deserve to live in safety.
And in security.
And it's not to fear of
terrorists crossing the border
in the middle of the night
and butchering their children.
But the people of Gaza
also deserve better.
Hamas has been ruling Gaza for six years.
And what have they brought?
The people of Gaza
just suffering and pain and poverty.
And everyone in this region
will be better off without Hamas
Just, if I may.
You described the
the unfortunate human situation here.
Terrible human, barbaric human situation.
But what about the
why are you concerned that her mother
and others
have been separated from Hamas
and are now in captivity by other groups
inside Gaza?
Look, from Israel's perspective,
Hamas can't subcontract out
any responsibility.
They are responsible.
And the reason for the pause
was not to give any excuses because,
you know, if they were
if Israel continued attacking,
they could say, well, we couldn't
get out of our bunker
to find the hostages.
They've had now four days of pause.
They're the guys that control the Gaza
Strip.
Unfortunately, I wish it wasn't the case.
It soon won't be the case.
But at the moment, they're in charge
and they are responsible
for all the hostages.
Mark Regev, thank you for your time.
Appreciate it.
Thanks for having me.
And, Wolf,
I want to bring you back in now.
Your reaction
knowing not only Mark Regev,
but knowing the situation
as well as you do to the news there.
I mean, I will say, obviously,
he confirmed this deal,
but at the end,
he talked about
when the military operation resumes,
not if when
Well, the Israeli Defense Ministry,
the Israeli the IDF,
the Israeli political leadership,
the war cabinet,
they are all basically on the same page
saying that
after they obviously
want to get all the Israeli hostages,
all the hostages
out of Gaza and back to Israel, that's
obviously a top priority,
if not the top priority.
But they're also saying that
even after that,
they're going to continue
their struggle against Hamas.
They don't want Hamas to be in charge
of Gaza
because they fear that
what happened on October 7th
could happen again.
So they're going to continue
to go after Hamas and resume
their military activity
whether air strikes or ground assault.
They're making it abundantly clear
that is not going to stop
it stopping
as long as this temporary truce
and they call it a truce a pause.
They're not calling it a cease fire
as long as this is going on.
They're going to pause
in the Israeli
military action against Hamas.
But they are making it abundantly clear
that is not going to pause forever.
They're going to go after Hamas.
And that's going to be very significant.